Flow characteristics of enteral feeding with psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid added. One therapy for managing diarrhea in patients in intensive care units who are receiving enteral nutrition is administration of psyllium hydrophilic mucilloid (PHM). This laboratory study was conducted to determine whether the addition of PHM (Metamucil) to enteral feeding formula (Entrition) adversely affected the flow characteristics of the feeding formula through a small-bore feeding tube. Descriptive data were obtained from 72 trials of feeding formula with varied infusion rates, formula osmolality and temperature, and PHM concentrations. Two thirds (n = 48) of the trials were successful (PHM did not clog the tubing and obstruct flow). The remaining one third of the trials (n = 24) were unsuccessful. Successful formula infusion was influenced by formula temperature and osmolality but not by infusion rate, PHM concentration, or flow interruption. If formula with PHM was followed by formula without PHM, the infusion was successful regardless of infusion rate or formula osmolality. Thus, the data from this laboratory study indicate that when therapeutic doses of PHM are prescribed, it is feasible for PHM to be mixed in room-temperature feeding formula and infused without clogging the feeding tube.
The role of growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor-I in experimental renal growth and scarring. Recent evidence suggests a causal link between early renal/glomerular hypertrophy and late kidney scarring and glomerular sclerosis. Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) is a growth-promoting peptide likely to play a role in the development of kidney growth. We observed an increased renal IGF-I content in two experimental models of accelerated kidney growth in the rat. By contrast, diabetic renal hypertrophy is abolished in the absence of growth hormone (GH). Dietary protein manipulations affect the expression of compensatory renal growth (CRG), as well as renal IGF-I content. The renotrophic effect of a high-protein diet on CRG seems GH-dependent and IGF-I-mediated. GH also appears to have a permissive role on the development of progressive renal scarring following extensive renal ablation in rats, as dwarf rats seem somewhat resistant to the development of accelerated scarring and renal failure.
